# What is the goal of the Inspire Module

This module implements all functionality specific to INSPIRE metadata. Like create a new metadata document for a dataset a series of datasets or services using YAML config files. It also offers functionality to extract information form INSPIRE metadata documents and offers templates with minimal information as required by the inspire spec. The tool will be used as a CLI tool as it is intended to be used in data pipelines. In our cases the pipeline would use datasets that are (in most cases) already described with inspire metadata as input. The processing step would change the data resource and eventually generate new datasets which also needs to be described using inspire metadata for datasets but this time the lineage information of what sources have been used to generate the new dataset should be part of the metadata.

As the main benefit is automation this tool should also be able to be part of that pipeline and produce metadata documents for each of the pipeline results (if necessary)

## Development considerations

Currently it seems reasonable to implement the inspire technical requirements based on metadata iso19139 using python xml libs. This would be a new implementation without a good perspective to be picked up for further development once the projects end. Therefor it would be better to pickup an existing package that can generate such metadata documents already. It seems that in most cases geo servers would generate the INSPIRE metadata documents automatically or via an UI tool. The tool which is closest to what we need is pygeometa a tool which can generate multiple metadata formats for spatial data like ISO 19139 format. But is seems to lack the functionality to generate Service metadata. Pygeometa uses templates to generate the metadata files. This approach is different to how conceptMeta is doing things: Here i collected the xpaths for required properties of the TG for INSPIRE datasets/series & services. I group them into functions and which can read the values from the config YAML file and insert them at the appropriate location.
